---
layout: layout.liquid
title: Chosen Ones
---

# **Conclusion** #

## With the three characters we researched for this website, all three of them were born with special powers, though they didnt all save the universe or world. The "Chosen One" trope is a popular narrative element that features a character destined to overcome great challenges, often in a battle between good and evil. This trope appeals to universal desires for heroism and significance, as it involves themes of destiny, personal growth, and triumph. However, it also faces criticism for oversimplifying destiny and overshadowing collective efforts. Despite these critiques, the "Chosen One" remains a compelling part of storytelling, resonating with audiences through its exploration of duty, sacrifice, and power. Whether presented in traditional or innovative ways, it remains a powerful and inspiring narrative device. With Anakin being destined to "destroy the Sith" he presented an innovative way of using the "Chosen One" trope as he didnt save the universe at all but he moved it to chaos. On the other hand Neo was more of a traditional use of the "Chosen One" trope as he was told he was the one and eventually was able to save the Matrix. Lastly, Paul Atreides was also a innovative way of using the trope as he was born to a special lineage, but nobody told him he was the Chosen One and had to grow into that role himself through hardwork and determination. In the end, the "Chosen One" trope always meets expectations when it comes to facinating audiences with a great story and an interesting character who most audience members end up rooting for throughout the films. We talked a lot about free wll in class and the "Chosen One" trope made us realize that most of these individuals werent given a chance at free will becuase for the most part, they were expected to save the world.##